The tree data structure has a root, branches, and leaves

Difference between real trees and the data structure is
that a data structure has its root at the top and its leaves at the bottom. (like biological family trees)

All the children of one node are independent of the children of another node

Each leaf node is unique

Node:

	A node is a fundamental part of a tree. It can have a name, which we call the 'key'

	A node may also have additional info - This is the 'payload'

	While the payload is not central to many tree algorithms, it is often critical in applications that make use of trees. 

Edge:

	An edge is another fundamental part of a tree.

	An edge connects two nodes to show that there is a relationship between them

	In trees, every node except the root (0) is connected by exactly one incoming edge from another node.

	Each node may have several outgoing edges

Path:

	A path is an ordered list of nodes that are connected by edges. 

Children:

	The set of nodes 'c' that have incoming edges from the same node are said to be children of that node

Parent:

	A node is the parent of all the nodes it connects to with outgoing edges

Sibling:

	Nodes in the tree that are children of the same parent are said to be siblings.

SubTree:

	A subtree is a set of nodes and edges comprised of a parent and all the descendants of that parent.

Leaf Node:

	A leaf node is a node that has no children.

Level:
	
	The level of a node 'n' is the number of edges on the path from the root node to n.

Height:
	
	The height of a tree is equal to the maximum level of any node in the tree. 

Full Definition:

	A tree consists of a set of nodes and a set of edges that connect pairs of nodes. 

	A tree has the following properties:

		One node of the tree is designated as the root node.

		Every node n, except the root node, is connected by an edge from exactly one other node p, where p is the parent of n.

		A unique path traverses from the root to each node.

		If each node in the tree has a maximum of two children, we say that the tree is a binary tree

Recursive Definition:
	
	A tree is either empty or consists of a root and zero or more subtrees, each of which is also a tree.

	The root of each subtree is connected to the root of the parent tree by an edge. 