
RL training has many references to biology and psych

Agents are use to model animal behavior. 

Objective is a goal. 

Supervised objective: maximize accuracy or likelihood/minimize cost

RL agents get feedback as they interact with the environment

Feedback signals(rewards) are automatically given to the agent by the environment.

	VS supervised learning: labels need to be made by humans (time-consuming and expensive)

Phrasing objective in terms of goal allows us to solve a wide variety of proble,s

Google's AlphaGo's Goal is to win Go

Goal of a video game AI: win the game/get the highest score.

What about animals and humans?

Selfish gene theory (Dawkins)

AlphaGo found unique ways of winningL unusual and unexpected by observers.

Selfish gene theory says that everything we do is designed to serve out genes' desire to multiply (why do people want to be rich, etc)

Richness has no physical relationship to genes, yet its a novel solution to the problem.

Tic Tac Toe:

	Number of possible states? each location on the board has 3 possible states: empty, X, or O. 

	9 locations on the board

	3^9 = ~19,000 states

Agent: thing that senses its environment, thing we're trying to code intelligence/learning into

Environment: Real world or simulated world that the agent lives in. 

State: Different configurations of the environment that the agent can sense.

Rewards: An agent not only tries to maximize its immediate reward (finding local gradient vectors (with velocity and direction)), but future rewards as well. 

RL algorithms can find novel ways of accomplishing this.

Not intuitive to humans, but RL can figure it out. 

Maze problem:

	Reasonable goal: solve the maze 

	Reward: 1 if solved, 0 if not 

	Possible solution: move randomly until solved. 

	RL solution: 

		Reward: -1 for every step taken

			In order to maximize total reward, must minimize total # of steps

			Note: reward is always a real number

SAR triples:

	(State, action, reward)

Time is important in RL

	Every game is a sequence of states, actions, rewards

	Convention: Start in state S(t), take action A(t), receive a reward R(t+1)
	S(t), A(t), S(t+1) = (s,a,s')

Program the agent to be intelligent

Agent interacts with its environment by being in a state, taking action based on that state, which brings it to a new state.

Environment gives the agent a reward, can be +ve or -ve (but must be a number)

Reward is received in the next state.

 




